INSTALL.md, before:

Install Jenkins Platform on Kubernetes with jx
===

[Jenkins](https://jenkins.io/) is an open source automation server. [Jenkins-X (jx)](https://jenkins.io/projects/jenkins-x) is a Jenkins sub-project for Jenkins-on-Kubernetes.
This document describe hot to create a Jenkins-on-Kubernetes service on Google Kubernetes Engine(GKE) from ground zero.

---

# Create GKE cluster & Get Credentials

```
gcloud init
gcloud components update
```

```
CLUSTER_NAME=jenkins-server
#CLUSTER_NAME=jenkins-serverless

gcloud container clusters create ${CLUSTER_NAME} \
  --num-nodes 1 \
  --machine-type n1-standard-4 \
  --enable-autoscaling \
  --min-nodes 1 \
  --max-nodes 2 \
  --zone asia-east1-b \
  --preemptible

# After cluster initialization, get credentials to access cluster with kubectl
gcloud container clusters get-credentials ${CLUSTER_NAME}

# Check cluster stats.
kubectl get nodes
```

# Install jx on Local Machine

[Jenkins X Release](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jx/releases](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jx/releases)

```
JX_VERSION=v2.0.2
OS_ARCH=darwin-amd64
#OS_ARCH=linux-amd64
curl -L https://github.com/jenkins-x/jx/releases/download/"${JX_VERSION}"/jx-"${OS_ARCH}".tar.gz | tar xzv
sudo mv jx /usr/local/bin
jx version

NAME               VERSION
jx                 2.0.2
Kubernetes cluster v1.11.7-gke.12
kubectl            v1.11.9-dispatcher
helm client        v2.11.0+g2e55dbe
helm server        v2.11.0+g2e55dbe
git                git version 2.20.1
Operating System   Mac OS X 10.14.4 build 18E226
```

# (Option 1) Install Serverless Jenkins Pipeline

```
DEFAULT_PASSWORD=mySecretPassWord123

jx install \
  --default-admin-password=${DEFAULT_PASSWORD} \
  --provider='gke'
```

Options:
- Enter Github user name
- Enter Github personal api token for CI/CD
- Enable Github as Git pipeline server
- Select Jenkins installation type: 
  - [x] Serverless Jenkins X Pipelines with Tekon
  - [] Static Master Jenkins
- Pick default workload build pack
  - [x] Kubernetes Workloads: Automated CI+CD with GitOps Promotion
  - Library Workloads: CI+Release but no CD
- Select the organization where you want to create the environment repository: 
  - chechiachang

```
Your Kubernetes context is now set to the namespace: jx
INFO[0231] To switch back to your original namespace use: jx namespace jx
INFO[0231] Or to use this context/namespace in just one terminal use: jx shell
INFO[0231] For help on switching contexts see: https://jenkins-x.io/developing/kube-context/

INFO[0231] To import existing projects into Jenkins:       jx import
INFO[0231] To create a new Spring Boot microservice:       jx create spring -d web -d actuator
INFO[0231] To create a new microservice from a quickstart: jx create quickstart
```

# (Option 2) Install Static Jenkins Server

```
DEFAULT_PASSWORD=mySecretPassWord123

jx install \
  --default-admin-password=${DEFAULT_PASSWORD} \
  --provider='gke'
```

Options:
- Enter Github user name
- Enter Github personal api token for CI/CD
- Enable Github as Git pipeline server
- Select Jenkins installation type: 
  - [] Serverless Jenkins X Pipelines with Tekon
  - [x] Static Master Jenkins
- Pick default workload build pack
  - [x] Kubernetes Workloads: Automated CI+CD with GitOps Promotion
  - Library Workloads: CI+Release but no CD
- Select the organization where you want to create the environment repository: 
  - chechiachang

```
INFO[0465]
Your Kubernetes context is now set to the namespace: jx
INFO[0465] To switch back to your original namespace use: jx namespace default
INFO[0465] Or to use this context/namespace in just one terminal use: jx shell
INFO[0465] For help on switching contexts see: https://jenkins-x.io/developing/kube-context/

INFO[0465] To import existing projects into Jenkins:       jx import
INFO[0465] To create a new Spring Boot microservice:       jx create spring -d web -d actuator
INFO[0465] To create a new microservice from a quickstart: jx create quickstart
```

Access Static Jenkins Server through Domain with username and password
Domain http://jenkins.jx.11.22.33.44.nip.io/

# Uninstall

```
jx uninstall
# rm -rf ~/.jx
```
---
Setup Application CI/CD Pipeline
===

# Create Quickstart Repository

```
kubectl get pods --namespace jx --watch
```

```
# cd workspace
jx create quickstart
```

- Which organisation do you want to use? chechiachang
- Enter the new repository name:  serverless-jenkins-quickstart
- select the quickstart you wish to create  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
  angular-io-quickstart
  aspnet-app
  dlang-http
> golang-http
  jenkins-cwp-quickstart
  jenkins-quickstart
  node-http

```
INFO[0121] Watch pipeline activity via:    jx get activity -f serverless-jenkins-quickstart -w
INFO[0121] Browse the pipeline log via:    jx get build logs chechiachang/serverless-jenkins-quickstart/master
INFO[0121] Open the Jenkins console via    jx console
INFO[0121] You can list the pipelines via: jx get pipelines
INFO[0121] When the pipeline is complete:  jx get applications
```

# Check log of the first run

```
jx logs pipeline
```

# Add Step to Pipeline

Add a setup step for pullrequest
```
cd serverless-jenkins-quickstart
jx create step --pipeline pullrequest \
  --lifecycle setup \
  --mode replace \
  --sh "echo hello world"
```

Validate pipeline step for each modification
```
jx step validate
```

A build-pack pod started after git push. Watch pod status with kubectl.
```
kubectl get pods --namespace jx --watch
```

# Check Build Status on Prow (Serverless)

http://deck.jx.130.211.245.13.nip.io/
Login with username and password

---

# Import Existing Repository

In source code repository:

Import jx to remote jenkins-server. This will apply a Jenkinsfile to repository by default
```
jx import --url git@github.com:chechiachang/serverless-jenkins-quickstart.git
```

Update jenkins-x.yml
```
jx create step
```

git commit & push

---

# Trouble Shooting

### Failed to get jx resources

```
jx get pipelines
```

Make sure your jx (or kubectl) context is with the correct GKE and namespace
```
kc config set-context gke_my-project_asia-east1-b_jenkins \
  --namespace=jx
```

---

# Check jenkins-x examples

https://github.com/jenkins-x-buildpacks/jenkins-x-kubernetes/tree/master/packs

Commit message:

Add comparision to helm to README

INSTALL.md, after:

Install Jenkins Platform on Kubernetes with jx
===

[Jenkins](https://jenkins.io/) is an open source automation server. [Jenkins-X (jx)](https://jenkins.io/projects/jenkins-x) is a Jenkins sub-project for Jenkins-on-Kubernetes.
This document describe hot to create a Jenkins-on-Kubernetes service on Google Kubernetes Engine(GKE) from ground zero.

---

# Create GKE cluster & Get Credentials

```
gcloud init
gcloud components update
```

```
CLUSTER_NAME=jenkins-server
#CLUSTER_NAME=jenkins-serverless

gcloud container clusters create ${CLUSTER_NAME} \
  --num-nodes 1 \
  --machine-type n1-standard-4 \
  --enable-autoscaling \
  --min-nodes 1 \
  --max-nodes 2 \
  --zone asia-east1-b \
  --preemptible

# After cluster initialization, get credentials to access cluster with kubectl
gcloud container clusters get-credentials ${CLUSTER_NAME}

# Check cluster stats.
kubectl get nodes
```

# Install jx on Local Machine

[Jenkins X Release](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jx/releases](https://github.com/jenkins-x/jx/releases)

```
JX_VERSION=v2.0.2
OS_ARCH=darwin-amd64
#OS_ARCH=linux-amd64
curl -L https://github.com/jenkins-x/jx/releases/download/"${JX_VERSION}"/jx-"${OS_ARCH}".tar.gz | tar xzv
sudo mv jx /usr/local/bin
jx version

NAME               VERSION
jx                 2.0.2
Kubernetes cluster v1.11.7-gke.12
kubectl            v1.11.9-dispatcher
helm client        v2.11.0+g2e55dbe
helm server        v2.11.0+g2e55dbe
git                git version 2.20.1
Operating System   Mac OS X 10.14.4 build 18E226
```

# (Option 1) Install Serverless Jenkins Pipeline

```
DEFAULT_PASSWORD=mySecretPassWord123

jx install \
  --default-admin-password=${DEFAULT_PASSWORD} \
  --provider='gke'
```

Options:
- Enter Github user name
- Enter Github personal api token for CI/CD
- Enable Github as Git pipeline server
- Select Jenkins installation type: 
  - [x] Serverless Jenkins X Pipelines with Tekon
  - [] Static Master Jenkins
- Pick default workload build pack
  - [x] Kubernetes Workloads: Automated CI+CD with GitOps Promotion
  - Library Workloads: CI+Release but no CD
- Select the organization where you want to create the environment repository: 
  - chechiachang

```
Your Kubernetes context is now set to the namespace: jx
INFO[0231] To switch back to your original namespace use: jx namespace jx
INFO[0231] Or to use this context/namespace in just one terminal use: jx shell
INFO[0231] For help on switching contexts see: https://jenkins-x.io/developing/kube-context/

INFO[0231] To import existing projects into Jenkins:       jx import
INFO[0231] To create a new Spring Boot microservice:       jx create spring -d web -d actuator
INFO[0231] To create a new microservice from a quickstart: jx create quickstart
```

# (Option 2) Install Static Jenkins Server

```
DEFAULT_PASSWORD=mySecretPassWord123

jx install \
  --default-admin-password=${DEFAULT_PASSWORD} \
  --provider='gke'
```

Options:
- Enter Github user name
- Enter Github personal api token for CI/CD
- Enable Github as Git pipeline server
- Select Jenkins installation type: 
  - [] Serverless Jenkins X Pipelines with Tekon
  - [x] Static Master Jenkins
- Pick default workload build pack
  - [x] Kubernetes Workloads: Automated CI+CD with GitOps Promotion
  - Library Workloads: CI+Release but no CD
- Select the organization where you want to create the environment repository: 
  - chechiachang

```
INFO[0465]
Your Kubernetes context is now set to the namespace: jx
INFO[0465] To switch back to your original namespace use: jx namespace default
INFO[0465] Or to use this context/namespace in just one terminal use: jx shell
INFO[0465] For help on switching contexts see: https://jenkins-x.io/developing/kube-context/

INFO[0465] To import existing projects into Jenkins:       jx import
INFO[0465] To create a new Spring Boot microservice:       jx create spring -d web -d actuator
INFO[0465] To create a new microservice from a quickstart: jx create quickstart
```

Access Static Jenkins Server through Domain with username and password
Domain http://jenkins.jx.11.22.33.44.nip.io/

# Uninstall

```
jx uninstall
# rm -rf ~/.jx
```
---
Setup Application CI/CD Pipeline
===

# Create Quickstart Repository

```
kubectl get pods --namespace jx --watch
```

```
# cd workspace
jx create quickstart
```

- Which organisation do you want to use? chechiachang
- Enter the new repository name:  serverless-jenkins-quickstart
- select the quickstart you wish to create  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
  angular-io-quickstart
  aspnet-app
  dlang-http
> golang-http
  jenkins-cwp-quickstart
  jenkins-quickstart
  node-http

```
INFO[0121] Watch pipeline activity via:    jx get activity -f serverless-jenkins-quickstart -w
INFO[0121] Browse the pipeline log via:    jx get build logs chechiachang/serverless-jenkins-quickstart/master
INFO[0121] Open the Jenkins console via    jx console
INFO[0121] You can list the pipelines via: jx get pipelines
INFO[0121] When the pipeline is complete:  jx get applications
```

# Check log of the first run

```
jx logs pipeline
```

# Add Step to Pipeline

Add a setup step for pullrequest
```
cd serverless-jenkins-quickstart
jx create step --pipeline pullrequest \
  --lifecycle setup \
  --mode replace \
  --sh "echo hello world"
```

Validate pipeline step for each modification
```
jx step validate
```

A build-pack pod started after git push. Watch pod status with kubectl.
```
kubectl get pods --namespace jx --watch
```

# Check Build Status on Prow (Serverless)

http://deck.jx.130.211.245.13.nip.io/
Login with username and password

---

# Import Existing Repository

In source code repository:

Import jx to remote jenkins-server. This will apply a Jenkinsfile to repository by default
```
jx import --url git@github.com:chechiachang/serverless-jenkins-quickstart.git
```

Update jenkins-x.yml
```
jx create step
```

git commit & push

---

# Trouble Shooting

### Failed to get jx resources

```
jx get pipelines
```

Make sure your jx (or kubectl) context is with the correct GKE and namespace
```
kc config set-context gke_my-project_asia-east1-b_jenkins \
  --namespace=jx
```

---

# Why not use helm chart?

It's readlly depend on what we need in CI/CD automation.

[Jenkins Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/jenkins) create Jenkins master and slave cluster on Kubernetes utilizing the Jenkins Kubernetes plugin.
Jenkin Platform with jx is Jenkins Platform native to Kubernetes. It comes with powerful cloud native components like Prow automation, Nexus, Docker Registry, Tekton Pipeline, ...

# Check jenkins-x examples

https://github.com/jenkins-x-buildpacks/jenkins-x-kubernetes/tree/master/packs
